
=head1 DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

Interchange is free of charge, and is distributed under the GNU
General Public License.  This means that individuals and organizations,
both commercial and non-commercial, may use Interchange without charge. If
you modify and redistribute it, there are certain obligations you
must fulfill. See the file Copying which came with your Interchange
distribution for the full license.

Interchange is not guaranteed to be supported other than by making
full source code available. If it breaks you get to keep both pieces.
However, in practice Interchange is supported by a developer group and
user community at it's mail list, interchange-users@icdevgroup.org. There
are dozens of consultants who make Interchange-based systems their full-time 
work, and their are scores more who develop Interchange catalogs and sites.

=head2 Where to Download Interchange

The Interchange version described in this document is available from:

    http://ftp.icdevgroup.org/

=head2 Perl

You will need Perl version 5.601 or higher to run Interchange 5.4, and
Perl 5.8.3 or higher is recommended. Interchange requires the modules
in Bundle::Interchange plus one of GDBM_File and DB_File.

Interchange can run on Windows with the cygwin extensions,
but it is not supported and there are no known production sites
using Windows. The majority of Interchange sites run on Linux,
but there are also sites running FreeBSD, Irix, Mac OS/X, and Solaris.
There is no reason Interchange cannot run on any Unix-like
operating system.

=head2 Setup for HTTP Servers

Interchange requires a that a web server be installed on your system
in the normal course of events.

As detailed previously, Interchange is always running in the background
as a daemon. It monitors either 1) a UNIX-domain file-based socket, located
in the RunDir directory (often etc/ in the main directory); or 2) a
series of INET-domain sockets.

The small CGI link program, called in the demo standard, is run to 
connect to one of those sockets and provide the link between Interchange
and the web server.

NOTE: Since Apache servers are the most popular, we will talk in the
terms they use.

You need to have a ScriptAlias or other CGI execution capability
to use the link program. (The default ScriptAlias for many web
servers is /cgi-bin.) If you have ExecCGI set for all of your
directories, then any program ending in a particular file suffix (usually
.cgi) will be seen as a CGI program.

=head2 UNIX-domain sockets

This is a socket which is not reachable from the Internet directly,
but which must come from a request on your own server. The link program
vlink is the provided facility for such communication with Interchange.

This is the most secure way to run your catalog, for there is no way
for systems on the Internet to interact with Interchange except through
its link program.

The most important issue with UNIX-domain sockets on Interchange is the
permissions with which the CGI program and the Interchange server run.

To improve security, Interchange normally runs with the socket file
having 0600 permissions (rw-------), which mandates that the CGI
program and the server run as the same user ID. This means
that the vlink program must be SUID to the same user ID as
the server executes under. (Or that CGIWRAP or suexec is used
on a single catalog system).

With Interchange multiple catalog capability, the permissions situation
gets a bit tricky. Interchange comes with a program, makecat, which
configures catalogs for a multiple catalog system. It should properly set
up ownership and permissions for multiple users if run as the superuser.

=head2 INET-domain sockets

These are sockets which are reachable from the Internet directly.
The link program tlink is the provided facility for such communication with
Interchange; you may also use your browser to talk to the socket directly
if you have it mapped to a catalog with the global TcpMap directive.

To improve security, Interchange usually checks that the request comes
from one of a limited number of systems, defined in the global TcpHost
directive.

=head1 QUICK START

Obtain, decompress and untar the distribution:

    gzip -dc interchange-5.x.tar.gz | tar xvf -

Change to the created directory, something like:

    cd interchange-5.4.0

Run the configure script with:

    ./configure

If you have trouble with ./configure, try this:

    perl Makefile.PL
    make
    make test
    make install

Replace the perl with the proper path to your Perl binary.

You will be asked for the directory where you want to install Interchange --
any directory will do. You must of course have write permission there;
and you will eventually need to have write permission on your CGI-BIN
and HTML directories. This directory is referred to later in the
documentation as VendRoot or the Interchange software directory.

The process should be self-explanatory. If you have trouble answering
the questions asked, look closely at the examples provided. If you
still have trouble, you will need to find a tutorial about the World
Wide Web -- the WWW FAQ at http://www.boutell.com/newfaq/ would be a
good place to look.

